Let's start with the first exercise here.
This clearly is a case where we need to create a computed property,
so let's add the computed object here to our vue instance. The computed object then as the data object
takes key value pairs where the key is our property name,
result but the value is not directly the value but instead a function which will return as the value
result should eventually have.
So here, the eventual value of result shall depend on value, so on this value property here.
I want to check whether value is let's say equal to 37 in this case or not,
so I will return this check,
this value equals 37 and output done
if we actually do fulfill this requirement and not there yet otherwise. And of course feel free to choose
any other set up or number you want, the key part is that we're using this dependency on value here.
With this, I can hit control enter here to see not there yet
and now let's change this to actually be 37.
So I'll push this up to 35 and then add two more and we see done,
this is our computed property working and feel free to make this more complex in anyway you imagine
but generally, this is how you always use computed properties,
having a function, that is important which returns the actual value this result property in this case
will eventually have
and in this function, you may use any code you want and importantly which is why it is so powerful when
using dependencies, you may use any other property or data field you want but you don't have to, a
computed property
could also simply be a normal arithmetic calculation if for some reason you need that functionality,
it could be a random number if you need that functionality,
so whatever you need here.
The second exercise here wants me to watch for changes in the result property,
so in this computed property, we can also watch such a computed property not just normal properties,
we can watch any property at the end.
So let's add the watch object to our vuejs instance and then as a key, we specify the name of the
property we want to watch,
result here referring to this result property
we set up here as a computed property.
So again, this is really important to understand, you can watch any property computed or not. And then the
value here is the function which should get executed whenever result changes,
so here I then want to reset the value property, this one here after 5 seconds,
so I will simply call set timeout, second argument will be 5000 for five seconds and then
here, I will have my function which should get executed.
Now as I mentioned in the last video, we will have to bind our this variable, so var vm is the variable
I'll create for this which is equal to this,
so that I still get access to this vue instance with the proxy properties like result and value
specifically, as in here,
I will need to set vm value referring to this value property here equal to zero again.
Let's hit control enter and correct this mistake here,
we of course need a colon after watch,
so control enter again
and now let's see, I can add 5 and we don't see a change after 5 seconds here because result here
wasn't changed but yes it was re-evaluated,
it was recalculated because we changed the value but result is still not there yet.
So let's change it to 37 then and wait for 5 seconds,
here we go,
it jumped back to zero and that also reset result,
so we even get this kind of circle that we're watching result which depends on value where we then
reset value which also resets result as it depends on value.
So you can also create kind of infinite dependencies here or infinite circles so watch out for that.
For example, if I were to watch this result here and change result whenever for example value is equal
to zero, then I would continuously execute this code and get into a never ending loop,
so you may want to watch out for this.
The use case here works works perfectly fine since we only reset if we reach 37, like we do here,
watch it again, here we go.
So this has been the exercise on computed properties and watch, I hope you were able to get a bit better
into using these two features,
understand the difference, that on the one we simply calculate a property whereas on the other, watch,
we simply react to some changes and we don't necessarily have to change a property there even though
we do so here
but you don't have to, you could run any code here.
And this is the important thing to understand where
it's important that you feel comfortable using these features as these two features, computed and watch
really make your application much more reactive and allow you to create very flexible and reactive applications.